In this segment I'm going to
tell you about the kinds of
grammar transforms that we used to
do the efficient parsing of PCFGs.
So the most frequently known grammar
transformation is the Chomsky normal form.
So the idea of the Chomsky normal form is
that CFG rules are restricted to being up
to simple forms that they either
X goes to YZ where all of x,
y and z are non-terminals or
they're simply the form of a non-terminal
X rewrites as a terminal W.
So you can take any CFG and
transform it into i's Chomsky normal form,
derived normal form and produce another
CFG which recognizes the same language.
That is, it doesn't necessarily
give the same tree structures, but
the same strings are part of and
not part of the language.
And the way that you do that is by
going through a series of transforms
that get rid of the MP rules and
the unary rules and
then divide that rules that have more
then two things on the left side.
Let's just quickly go through
an example of how we do that.
So here's our ugly phrase structure
grammar with all the bad cases in it.
So first off, let's do epsilon removal, so
there's just one rule with epsilon in it,
so we're going to get rid of that one.
And the way we're going to do that is
every time that there had been a rule
which has an NP on the right-hand side,
we're going to split it into two rules,
one just as before and one that then
notes that the noun phrase can be empty,
and so just says S can go to a VP.
Okay, so if we keep on doing that through
all the other places that NP turns up,
we then get this grammar.
So then at this point, we see that
there are a lot of unary rules, and
more than there were before.
And so we're going to want to
start getting rid of them.
So the way we do that is we
pick the first one, say, and
then we work down
the consequences of it downwards.
So now we're saying that S
can go straight to a VP.
And so that means we now look for
where there's a VP on the left-hand side.
And since an S can immediately go to a VP,
as well as keeping this rule,
we're going to have to add another
one that says an S can go to V NP,
and so we make that change.
So now we have this grammar, and
unfortunately, those changes mean that
we've introduced a new unary rule
with an S on the left-hand side.
So you have to do this unary removal
recursively until every unary has
disappeared.
So now we have S goes to V, and well,
where does V appear on the left-hand side?
That happens in the lexicon over here.
So when we get rid of this rule,
we're going to have to add new
lexical entries saying that an S can go
to people and so on for the other cases.
And so that then gets us to this state.
Okay, and
then at that point we just keep on going.
So we're going to get rid of this
VP goes to V, but that means we're
going to look again for places where
a V appears on the left-hand side,
and we're going to further
increase the size of our lexicon.
And then there are just still more
unaries and so we keep on going.
So the first one here is NP goes to NP.
That's an A over A unary that
doesn't add anything apart from for
idea's linguistic structure so
we can just erase that without changing
the language that's recognized.
And then we have here, NP goes to N.
And so then again,
we're going to have to start looking
where N appears on the left-hand side.
And what we'll find in this case is,
now there's nowhere in
the grammar where N appears on
the right-hand side of a rule,
so we don't actually have to
split these lexical entries.
We can actually just rename
them to put NP in for each one.
And so then we keep on going.
There are couple of other
unary rules down here.
So once we get rid of them all we
get a grammar looks like this.
And so now the next step is to say,
well, gee,
we've still got some rules that have
three things on the left-hand side,
and we're going to have to
change those into binary rules.
And the way that we do that is we
introduce extra categories, so
let's take this one.
So what we're going to say is that
a VP goes to the first thing here,
a V, and then we're going to
introduce a new category,
say X, and then we're going
to say that X goes to NP PP.
So I just called it X here, but
to make this a little bit simpler
we're going to use systematic but
unwieldy names for them so
we can call this at VP_V.
And the way to think of this is that
this is just the name of a nonterminal,
just like any other nonterminal.
You just treat it as an atom.
But we've given a systematic
way to introduce them.
So we make those changes, and then this is
our final grammar in Chomsky Normal form.
Now if a linguist hands you their grammar
like this and you do these steps and
hand it back to them and say, here it is
in Chomsky Normal Form, they're not likely
to like what they see because it's made a
real mess of the structure of the grammar.
But that's not really something
that you should worry about.
You should regard this as an internal
representation inside your system
which will allow efficient parsing and
isn't really designed to be a structure
of the language as the linguist sees it.
So that this is a system that lets
us do grammar transformations for
efficient parsing.
And we haven't exhibited it here,
but with some extra bookkeeping and
symbol names, you can do these
kind of transformations and
still be able to reconstruct
the original trees that you would have
made without doing
the grammar transformation.
Nevertheless, in practice while doing
full Chomsky Normal Form is a pain,
you should be able to see from the way
that we deconstructed the rules with more
than three things on the left-hand side,
that turning them back into unary
rules from binary rules,
that's going to be straightforward.
But reconstructing the empties and
the unaries is trickier, and so
at this point there is actually a divide.
The thing that you want to know is
binarization of grammar rules is
absolutely essential to the algorithms
that we're going to show that allow cubic
time CFG parsing, cubic time parsing
of arbitrary context free grammars.
So any system for efficient polynomial
time parsing of context free grammars
somewhere does binarization.
It might be done in advance, like in the
example we're going to show with the CKY
algorithm, where we explicitly
transform the grammar and
then parse, or for
some other forms of parsing.
The binarization gets hidden
inside the workings of the parser,
but binarization is always done somewhere.
On the other hand, the getting rid of the
unaries and the empties is more optional.
So if you want to have the neatest
version of the algorithms, you
will want to do the unaries and empties
as well, but leaving the unaries and
empties around doesn't change the
asymptotic complexity of the algorithms.
So, commonly it's more convenient
to leave some of them in and
we'll demonstrate that
with our real examples.
So, we've discussed this
as a grammar transform.
But what we normally actually do
in statistical parsing these days
is read trees from a tree bank and
then do stuff to them and
then count the subtrees and
they become our grammar.
So what we're going to do,
is we're going to say,
by and large, what we're reading
in trees from a tree bank.
And look, this subtree is going to
be something for our grammar, and
this subtree here is going to
be something for our grammar.
But well, we don't want to have
these subtrees with three or
more things beneath them, because that
ruins our efficient parsability property.
So as we read in the trees,
we're going to transform them and
turn them into binary trees.
And we've done it in the same way as we
discussed before, by introducing this
new non-terminal and dividing up
the rule that had three children.
And we may want to do the same
things with empties and unaries.
So let's just discuss
that a little bit more.
So here is an actual tree
from the pin tree bank, so
it was a headline of a newspaper article,
and the headline was just atone.
And so the way that's been analyzed
is by saying that that's a sentence,
an imperative sentence.
So here's an imperative verb, and
the imperative verb has
an unexpressed NP subject.
So this is an empty here.
Okay, and
this says that it's a headline, and
these are the functional tags
saying this is a subject.
So normally, when we process tree bank
trees, the kind of things we do is,
first of all,
we strip off the functional tags and
we just deal with the basic categories,
which gets us to over here.
Very commonly, our parsing algorithms
don't explicitly deal with the empties,
so we also just delete the empty node and
everything that's above an empty node.
And so
that then maps us onto this tree here, and
this tree has a lot of unaries in it.
Now it's possible to
also get rid of unaries.
Now if you use the algorithm
that we showed before,
you get rid of unaries by
keeping the highest node.
So if you kept the truly
highest node out of root node,
you'd even get rid of this S, and
it'd just be root goes to Atone.
The start symbol of the grammar
would rewrite as a word.
Commonly we don't do that, and
we'll at least keep the rewrite
from our start symbol
to the different types of things that you
can get, a sentence or a noun phrase.
But then after that if
we keep the high node,
we'll have S goes straight to a word,
atone.
Normally we don't want to do that,
because we like to keep our lexicon which
has parts of speech rewriting as words.
So it's more usual to keep
the low end of a unary chain and
get rid of the higher up things.
But in that case if you want
to have a unique start symbol,
you definitely have to keep your start
symbol and allow the start symbol only
to rewrite unirally to
either a non-terminal,
phrasal category, or to a pre-terminal.
It turns out that you don't actually
have to do any of this stuff.
And so it's perfectly okay to
leave unaries in your grammar and
use the algorithms that
we're going to show.
It makes them a bit more complex and
messier in terms of a parsing algorithm.
But it makes it much easier to reconstruct
the original parse trees on the way out.
So the parsing algorithms that we're about
to show in the next segment actually work
over a representation like this.
So we still have unary rules but
we've deleted the functional tags and
the empty elements.
Okay, so I hope you have a sense now about
what's an error in grammar rules and
how we can transform them to get
them in frameworks that allow for
more efficient and
cleaner parsing algorithms.
And now we'll go on and
look at a particular parsing
algorithm that works with binary and
unary CFG rules.